[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> The famous UFO crashes of the
1940s like the one in Roswell,
New Mexico, are often associated
with the extraterrestrials
commonly referred
to as the Greys.
In fact, there was another
grey-colored species
who were involved with
those crash events.
They are referred to as
Extraterrestrial Biological
Entities, or Ebens.
These incidents, while
initially made public,
underwent extreme
measures from government
and military officials
to then cover them up.
Between captured ET
technologies and direct contacts
with extraterrestrial
biological entities,
government documents exist that
reveal the involvement of Ebens
within secret
undisclosed programs.
What is our relationship
with the Ebens?
And what do we know about their
involvement with humankind?
>> In 1947, there was a crash
in New Mexico near Roswell.
Involved two ET crafts.
One crash near
Corona, New Mexico.
A debris field was south
of that closer to Roswell.
The second craft
crashed in Horse Mesa
way out west of Magdalena,
New Mexico, in the mountains.
Very remote area.
Wasn't found until 1949.
The 1947 crash was
found by a rancher
and an archaeological team.
The archaeological team
found the actual craft
with one live ET, which
we later called Ebe 1,
and the other, the dead ETs.
The debris field south of
there was found by another man,
and that debris field was
considered the antenna section
of the Eben craft.
The craft was
transported eventually
onto Wright-Patterson Air
Force Base on Area 51.
The ET was transported to
Kirtland Field in Albuquerque,
New Mexico, and then
later to Los Alamos,
because Los Alamos was
the only place that
had a very secure facility
that they could house something
like an Eben, an
extraterrestrial.
I know about this
because I was actually
briefed in an official
briefing in 1979
at Kirtland Air Force Base.
I read it.
I saw the film.
I was briefed by an
Air Force Colonel.
We were briefed in the
special access program.
So I know what I'm
saying is factual,
and I follow that up by saying
that I had other contacts who
have been involved in that
incident and can verify
the same biological
entities were in both.
So we know that they
was the same ET Greys.
Is it possible that the
Ebens had been visiting Earth
prior to that?
Sure.
Absolutely.
I'm only telling you what I
know and what I had access to.
>> One of the most respected
science journalists,
Linda Moulton Howe, has
been reporting about UFOs
and contact for many decades.
She's been privy to
many government insiders
and documents.
>> On that day on April 9, 1983,
I did not have the experience
that I would have
20-some years later.
And those words,
extraterrestrial biological
entity, would end up in one
of the most important leaked
documents of all time called
the SOM1-01 training manual.
That training manual breaks
down extraterrestrial biological
entities into two types.
It is clearly a
government document.
It was printed in 1954 on
a government printing press
at Kirtland Air Force Base.
That was tracked
down by Bob Wood
who was an aerospace engineer
confirming that SOM1-01 101 is
a legitimate document.
About a year after I had
left McDonnell Douglas,
Stan Friedman called me
up and he said, you know,
Bob, he says, I've got
a fax of a document that
seems pretty interesting.
He said, it's a special
operations manual,
and are you interested
in authenticating it?
I said, yeah, I am.
So I went to Washington
where Don Berliner
had the special
operations manual,
and made high-quality
photographs of it
and then replicated it.
And it turned out
that I wound up
being pretty convinced
that it was authentic,
because I talked to a guy who
was in the public printing
office, and he looked
at it and he said, well,
based on the
content, I'd say it's
a hoax because of the title.
It was Extraterrestrial
Entities and Technology Recovery
and Disposal.
Basically, it was
a summary of how
we'd had a secret
program, Majestic-12,
to recover the craft,
and what to do with-- how
to keep the public in the dark
and where to send the bodies,
and stuff like that.
So I was in harmony with
the content of the document.
Figured this is
exactly what you would
want to do if you want to
keep the public in the dark.
>> We've never had the
government of the United States
say in any kind of
a legal procedure,
you are violating
national security.
This is not real.
So the SOM1-01 sits
out there as a leak
that every person who has
investigated says it's real.
When you go to the types, it's
extraterrestrial biological
entity.
And it's describing two types
with two different shaped heads
and heights and weights,
but they're both
referred to as extraterrestrial
biological entities.
And that means that the
United States government
from the Roswell years
in 1940s, World War II,
they were using that phrase,
extraterrestrial biological
entities, perhaps for a lot.
And eventually over time,
there has been a reduction down
that the Eben is a
very specific type,
and it is the one with
the pear-shaped head.
They can be grey, and people
will call things that are grey
Greys.
But as far as I know, the
extraterrestrial biological
entity in the SOM1-01 training
manual for military forces
about, we're dealing with
extraterrestrial biological
entities, there's a page and a
whole huge, important paragraph
about how the media and the
public are never to know,
and how you avoid any
information getting
to the public or the media.
That's all in this
SOM1-01 document.
To me, that lays out
clearly that in the 1940s,
that was a general phrase,
extraterrestrial biological
entities.
But by the 21st
century, there had
been the emergence of
so many different types
that it could only be
applied to a small group,
that as far as I know, they
can be artificial intelligence
or truly biological.
>> Tactical advisor to
the German government
on extraterrestrial
involvement on Earth,
Tim shares his unique
perspective about the Ebens
and their connection
to the Greys.
>> The Ebens are a different
species that also features
greyish skin.
Those two species come
from a relative star
system around
Orion, and they used
to be at war with each other.
They also seem to
genetically be related,
so they are kind of relatives
that don't necessarily
like each other, so to speak.
One theory was the
1947 crashes on US soil
might very well be provoked by
the Greys because at that time,
in the 1940s, Ebens and
Greys have been at war,
and people are reporting
different greyish figures.
But I assume that
we are speaking
about two different
species that have crashed,
and that might very well be
the Ebens in the 1947 crashes,
and probably also the Greys
in some other crashes.
>> So what I've been told from
clients under hypnosis is that
there was a war going on
between the regular Greys
and the Ebens, and that was
because the Greys are very
particular when it comes
to their hierarchy.
Now, the Ebens are
a type of Grey.
They're just more
physically focused,
unlike the Greys that
use avatar bodies.
The regular Greys feels if the
Ebens are inferior to them.
There was a war going
on for quite some time
until both groups
realized they needed
to agree to disagree
because Earth's evolution is
more important at this time.
>> Ebe 1, who was kept in
captivity in a deep underground
base, was examined by the
military's top experts.
After several attempts to
communicate with the being,
a group of linguists and
communication specialists
were able to ascertain
who the Ebens were
and from where they came.
>> Ever since they landed in
'47, there's a long story about
how Ebe was able to communicate.
We initially didn't
allow Ebe to have
any access to the equipment
on the recovered craft
from Corona.
We wouldn't let him see it.
We wouldn't let him touch it.
We wouldn't let him go near it.
It was an entirely
different place.
We did have what was later
determined to be the energy
device and another
device which we later
determined to be the
communications device.
We did have that at Los Alamos
because they were studying it.
Los Alamos scientists thought
the Plexiglas-looking thing
was just a window.
They didn't realize it
was an energy device.
The other contraption, which
was very strange in appearance--
I only saw a diagram of it.
I didn't ever see
the real thing.
It was an oblong-shaped
block of something
that had different appenditures.
And they thought
at first that that
might have been some
sort of an energy device,
but they could never
get it to activate.
But it turned out that was
a communications device.
The Plexiglas area or
the crystal rectangle,
they call it, was
the energy device.
And eventually somebody decided,
let's bring these into him
and let him look at it.
Then he explained
to the handler,
this was a
communications device.
Somehow he started trying to
communicate with his planet,
sending signals.
I think back then,
they were figuring
that he was sending these
signals to Zeta Reticuli, which
is 38 light years away.
But he wasn't sending
them to another planet.
He was sending to the closest
spaceship, closest Eben craft.
So eventually, the
signals came in,
and they made some
sort of an arrangement.
And before Ebe
died, he showed us
how to use the
communications device.
So when Ebe died--
I believe it was
November of 1952--
we were able to continue sending
signals on this communications
device out to space.
>> Communications with the Ebens
continued for almost a decade,
and the intelligence
teams involved received
communications in return.
This evolved into a top secret
program reported by researchers
as Project Serpo in
which the United States
government organized
an exchange program
with the extraterrestrial
beings that
crashed in the desert
near Roswell, New Mexico.
While the exact
number of participants
has never been agreed
upon by researchers,
the report suggests that
anywhere between three to 12
specially trained military
personnel traveled
to a planet in the Zeta
Reticuli star system
called Serpo, over
39 light years away,
in an exchange program
between humans and the Ebens.
>> We were getting
messages back within hours.
So it was determined
by our scientists
that these messages weren't
coming from Zeta Reticuli
38 light years away.
They were coming a
lot closer, and they
were pinpointing that
they were probably
out near Neptune
or maybe Jupiter.
So we were able to crudely
offer an exchange program.
There were three astronauts.
The three that was chosen,
they were ex-military pilots.
They're the ones that
actually went to Serpo.
One died in Serpo, one
stayed, and one came back.
They were supposed to
be gone for 10 years.
They left in 1965.
They were supposed
to be back in 1975.
Well, time periods of different
between Serpo and Earth.
The one came back 1978.
He tells a story about Serpo.
They live in mud huts.
They were all one race.
The planet had a high radiation.
They had to wear
these thin suits
that the Ebens
made for them that
protected their skin from
radiation and wear sunglasses
all the time.
It never really got dark.
Both suns would somewhat
set and then rise again.
Everything was controlled
by a clock in the middle
of their compound.
When a bell rang, they'd have
to go to dinner, breakfast.
There was one huge
dining facility
for that particular
village that they lived in.
Everybody ate at the same place.
It took them a long time
to adjust to the food.
Climate they were
usually living in
was 110, 115 degrees
24 hours a day.
They moved to a climate that
was between 60 and 80 degrees,
and they were more
adaptable to that climate.
They interacted with the Ebens.
They learned the Eben language.
To the best of our knowledge,
the one man that stayed there,
he had interacted
with an Eben woman.
She was one of
their controllers.
She could speak English.
She had spent time on Earth.
She was able to facilitate
things that they needed.
>> What we know about the
extraterrestrial biological
entities has either come through
Freedom of Information-accessed
documents released from
government agencies or from
the eyewitness experiences
reported around the world.
Through the collective
efforts of researchers
across many countries,
we've gained
some ideas about
who the Ebens are,
what their agendas might
be, and some understanding
about their advanced
technologies.
>> If we go back to the
work of Colonel Corso,
they did give us
certain technologies,
maybe night vision goggles.
Some of the beings were
autopsied by the US government.
It seemed that their
eyes actually had
these lenses that were unique.
In addition to that,
fiber optic cable
was a possibility coming from
extraterrestrial technologies.
Also, some people claim
not lasers per se,
because we were already
working on lasers,
but the sophisticated
technology was
gained from
extraterrestrial influence.
So there was a
lot of information
that was given to our government
from these extraterrestrial
biological entities.
The Ebens seemed
to also communicate
like many of the other
extraterrestrials in terms
of telepathy, but
they can also project
that thought into our
minds, even if we don't
consider ourselves telepathic.
In addition to that, they
seem to have longer lifespans.
They eat mainly by rubbing
something on their flesh
like an algae type
of substance that
then goes into their bodies.
They don't even have the
mouth to swallow that we have.
>> In the 1980s, shortly
after taking office,
US President Ronald Reagan
requested a briefing on the ET
presence here on Earth by the
then CIA Director Williams
Cayce.
Through leaked
documents, we learned
about a piece of
technology that the Ebens
used called the Yellow
Book, which allows the user
to see a holographic
representation
of the entire history of
the Ebens' involvement
with humankind.
>> Ebe 1 talks about something
that was in their craft that we
hadn't found.
Somebody figured it was
some form of a book.
So they gathered
up all this stuff
and they sent it
out to Los Alamos,
and they took it in to Ebe
1, and they laid it down.
And Ebe 1 pointed
to this one object.
And when you pick it up
and hold it in your hands,
yellow lines appear.
And if you sit there and look at
it, you start seeing pictures.
And along with the
pictures, you hear words.
>> The first time I ever heard
about the Yellow Book was from
Bob Lazar.
Bob Lazar had been exposed
as well as John Lear
and other people to
this notion that one
of the technologies that we
had found in one of the crash
crafts was the Yellow Book.
The way I've
understood it is you
have to be educated about
how you place your fingers.
If you know the patterns of
how you hold the rectangle,
you can make it come
up in a 3D hologram.
In the pages is the whole
history of our planet,
and also a history of what
would be Zeta Reticuli 1 and 2.
If you hold the
Yellow Book one way
with the fingers
in one position,
you can read it in English.
If you turn it upside
down and do this, you then
access the Zeta Reticuli
planet, that both worlds,
both civilizations are
encompassed in the Yellow Book.
The way it has been
described to me
is it's got a white background.
The words glow yellow.
Wherever your eye is,
you can slow it down.
You can make it accelerate.
You don't touch anything.
You do it with your
mind and your eye.
And the Yellow Book
glowing will continue
to move in English if that's
the configuration you are in.
Then if you want to look
at the holograms that
go with what you're
reading, there
is something that you have
to do with your fingers,
and then it will move
from a white background
with glowing yellow
letters and will come up
into images that are full 3D.
>> It's Eben history.
It goes back thousands
and thousands of years,
but it's in pictures.
The most incredible
part about it
is regardless of what
language you speak,
when you sit there
and look at it,
you hear it in your language.
And we have it.
It's with the artifacts
in Los Alamos.
>> In addition to
the Yellow Book,
Ebe 1 disclosed a number of
other devices that were aboard
his ship, including the
technology his species used
to travel through
space and time.
>> One of the main
questions asked was,
how do you travel across
light years to get here?
At some point, we figured out it
took them nine months to travel
from their star system to ours.
He just said, we're
on one point here.
We just fold over, and now
we're here at your point.
What he explained I think
scientists now understand
is folding the fabric of space.
That's how they travel.
They travel in a
period of time that
is significantly
shorter than it would
have taken to go light speed.
>> The late John Lear,
a former CIA pilot,
shared with us in a previous
interview that he had spent
some of his career working
at Area 51 with Bob Lazar.
Lazar brought to the world
information about Element 115,
an element not found on
Earth, that contributes
to anti-gravitic space travel.
>> This is the
anti-matter reactor,
and this is where it sits
in the middle of the craft.
I drew these to better
explain what Bob told me
how the craft worked.
Now this is the craft,
and the little orange spot
is where the
anti-matter reactor is.
These are the
gravity amplifiers.
And what happens is they shoot
protons into the 115, which
bumps it up to 116--
>> 116, right.
>> --which show off
the anti-matter,
which is mixed with matter, and
through a thermionic generator
creates voltage out of heat.
They then take-- they
are able to grasp
the gravity A wave, which
is available as the 116 is
going back to 115.
And they're able to
take it through the--
up to the center of the
craft and down to the sides
and into the gravity amplifiers.
Then focus on a point in
space and then increase
the attractiveness
of the amplifiers,
increase the
amplification that pulls
that space towards the craft.
It wraps around the craft,
and then they turn it off,
and they're instantly hundreds
of thousands of miles away.
I think the recharge
rate is 12 milliseconds.
So they can do that every
12 milliseconds, so you
can go a long, long ways.
This shows a craft
and the distance in--
>> Fabric of time and space.
>> Fabric in space--
holding it toward you with
the gravity amplifiers
and wrapping it around
the craft like that.
And then they turn off
the gravity amplifiers.
Then you snap back.
You don't actually snap back.
You are back to where you
withdrew that space from.
There is no traveling
or anything like that.
You are back there where you
withdrew that space from.
And there's no feeling
of motion or anything.
>> While it's unclear exactly
when extraterrestrials began
to influence planet Earth, some
researchers suggest they first
appeared thousands of years ago,
placing them directly alongside
the evolution of humanity.
If this is true, could
the Ebens have had a hand
in our evolution as a species?
>> The Ebens have visited Earth.
They were here about
2,000 years ago.
They did exploration.
They interacted with humans.
Then over the period
of thousands of years,
they explored
other star systems,
visited planets that
were uninhabited,
planets that were inhabited.
So they've been around, and
they know at least our galaxy.
>> In April 1983, Linda
Moulton Howe was contracted
for a television documentary
on the UFO phenomenon.
Her producer set up a meeting
at Kirkland Air Force Base
in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
It was there where
she met with Air Force
Office of Special Investigations
Agent Richard C. Doty.
>> We started a discussion, and
then he directed me and said,
I want you to move from
the chair you're in.
I want you to move
to that chair.
And it was right in the
middle of this huge office.
Nothing else around
it but the chair.
And you can read the
document, and he's pulling out
about a dozen typed pages.
And he hands them to me.
He said, you can read this,
but you cannot take notes.
My superior officers have
asked me to show this to you.
I'm looking at a front cover
letter, all caps, briefing
paper for the president of
the United States of America
on the subject of
unidentified aerial craft.
No date.
No origination office.
When I turned, I was then
reading history, this page,
this page, history of
things like sign and grudge.
And now I'm about the
third or fourth page in,
and I'm trying to read
fast and ask questions,
and I came to a
paragraph that said
quite literally, "These
extraterrestrial biological
entities--" that's our
translation now of Eben.
Whether they were Eben
or not is not clear
because those are the words.
"These extraterrestrial
biological entities
manipulated DNA in
already evolving primates
to create Homo sapiens."
And then the next sentences
were about what I assumed
to be the avatars of history.
And then the last
sentence in that paragraph
was, "But the humans
killed all three."
And I read that
paragraph over and over,
and the paper continued
into a lot of history
of extraterrestrials
and our government
and interfering with atomic
this and projects that.
And got back down to
the last two pages,
and the top one
said, Project Garnet.
And I remember saying,
remember your birth date.
I was born in January,
and it's a garnet.
"Project Garnet.
All questions and mysteries
about the evolution
of Homo sapiens on this
planet have been answered,
and this project is closed."
I remember that I read that
paragraph over and over
and over like the other one.
The final implication
of that day
is that the government had
a lot of information that
had been condensed
into that briefing
paper in which the
bottom line, whether it
was the president, the
secretary of Defense,
or a humble reporter
from Denver that I,
you, all Homo
sapiens sapiens were
the result of genetic
manipulation of already
evolving primates.
If the government of the United
States knows this to be a fact,
why are they not telling
the American people?
>> How can the government come
out and say, you know what?
We've been lying to
you for 70 years.
We've had ETs in captivity.
We've had ETs killed by humans.
We've had spaceships
reverse engineered.
We would open up Pandora's box,
and that's not going to happen.
I think there'll be
limited disclosure.
They'll come out and
say, yeah, we probably
had ETs in the past
visiting Earth.
We can't explain everything
that's out there,
but that's all we're
going to tell you.
>> Whether extraterrestrial
biological entities have been
visiting us for thousands of
years, as some experts suggest,
or we've only had contact with
them since the UFO crashes
of New Mexico from the 1940s,
evidence of their existence can
no longer be denied.
But the question
before us remains,
are the Ebens here to
help humanity evolve,
or is there some other agenda?
Either way, how will
an open disclosure
affect humankind as
we look to the future
only to realize the events
and all the other species
of the galactic family
are looking back?
Join us next time
when we explore
one of the Galactic Federation's
founders, the Andromedans.
[THEME MUSIC]